=pod

=head1 NAME

B<ads> - commandline access to ADS (Astrophysical data system)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ads [options] author [author2]... [startyear] [endyear]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ads> is a commandline tool to fill a query to the ADS website.  The
tool will construct a query and send it to the default web browser.
The tools takes author names and publishing years from the command
line with as little fuss as possible, to make it easy to use.  Some
search parameters can be changed with command line switches.

The main reason for writing this tool is that the author intensely
dislikes filling web forms on a regular basis.

Number arguments are parsed as start and end year.  String arguments
are parsed as author names.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 5

=item B<-t> STRING

A string to put into the title search field.

=item B<-a> STRING

A string to put into the abstract search field.

=item B<-f> STRING

A string to put into the fulltext search field.

=item B<-s> SORTING

Sorting mode for matched entries.  DEFAULT is 'date', to sort by date.
Values can be given in full, or be abbreviated.  The allowed values
and abbreviations are:
 
   d              => date                       This is the default
   a  fa          => first_author
   c  cc          => citation_count
   cn ccn nc ncc  => citation_count_norm
   s              => score

=item B<-r>

Only list refereed sources.  Default is to list also unrefereed.

=item B<-d>

Print debugging information

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Get papers by Dullemond and Dominik written in 2004.

    ads Dullemond Dominik,C 2004

Same authors, but only the papers where Dullemond is first author, and
in the range from 2000 to 2004.

    ads -r ^Dullemond Dominik 2000 2004

Get papers of Ed van den Heuvel.  This example shows that spaces in
name field can be replaced by the underscore character, if you don't
want to quote the name.

    ads "van den heuvel,E"
    ads van_den_heuvel,E

Same, sorted by normalized citations.

    ads -scn van_den_heuvel,E

For fun, and because I often think of additional constraints only after
I have typed the names, this command also allows to give the switch
arguments after or mixed with the author and year arguments.

    ads tielens,a -t interstellar 1979 -scc 1980

=head1 AUTHOR

Carsten Dominik    <dominik@uva.nl>

This program is free software.  It it released under the rules like
Perl itself, so wither the GNU General Public License, or the Artistic
License.

=cut

ADS(1)                User Contributed Perl Documentation               ADS(1)



NNAAMMEE
       ads - commandline access to ADS (Astrophysical data system)

SSYYNNOOPPSSIISS
       ads [options] author [author2]... [startyear] [endyear]

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       aaddss is a commandline tool to fill a query to the ADS website.  The tool
       will construct a query and send it to the default web browser.  The
       tools takes author names and publishing years from the command line
       with as little fuss as possible, to make it easy to use.  Some search
       parameters can be changed with command line switches.

       The main reason for writing this tool is that the author intensely
       dislikes filling web forms on a regular basis.

       Number arguments are parsed as start and end year.  String arguments
       are parsed as author names.

OOPPTTIIOONNSS
       --tt STRING
            A string to put into the title search field.

       --aa STRING
            A string to put into the abstract search field.

       --ff STRING
            A string to put into the fulltext search field.

       --ss SORTING
            Sorting mode for matched entries.  DEFAULT is 'date', to sort by
            date.  Values can be given in full, or be abbreviated.  The
            allowed values and abbreviations are:

               d              => date                       This is the default
               a  fa          => first_author
               c  cc          => citation_count
               cn ccn nc ncc  => citation_count_norm
               s              => score

       --rr   Only list refereed sources.  Default is to list also unrefereed.

       --dd   Print debugging information

EEXXAAMMPPLLEESS
       Get papers by Dullemond and Dominik written in 2004.

           ads Dullemond Dominik,C 2004

       Same authors, but only the papers where Dullemond is first author, and
       in the range from 2000 to 2004.

           ads -r ^Dullemond Dominik 2000 2004

       Get papers of Ed van den Heuvel.  This example shows that spaces in
       name field can be replaced by the underscore character, if you don't
       want to quote the name.

           ads "van den heuvel,E"
           ads van_den_heuvel,E

       Same, sorted by normalized citations.

           ads -scn van_den_heuvel,E

       For fun, and because I often think of additional constraints only after
       I have typed the names, this command also allows to give the switch
       arguments after or mixed with the author and year arguments.

           ads tielens,a -t interstellar 1979 -scc 1980

AAUUTTHHOORR
       Carsten Dominik    <dominik@uva.nl>

       This program is free software.  It it released under the rules like
       Perl itself, so wither the GNU General Public License, or the Artistic
       License.



perl v5.18.4                      2020-03-27                            ADS(1)
